README.md, before:

# Bookmark Manager

This web app imitates a bookmark manager.

-   Users can add a bookmark to the list.
-   Users can delete an existing bookmark to the list.
-   There is validation in the form to only allow website urls as valid entries, or an error will be thrown.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14803518/41667475-feb1afd8-74a4-11e8-9953-071c73c35fbd.png">
</p>

Excluding setup, this 5 hours worth of coding on this project. I will continue this project on another repo. I challenged myself to create this using React.js rather then my more familiar tech Vue.js.

### Installation

```
git clone git@github.com:puyanwei/bookmark-manager-react.git
cd bookmark-manager-react
npm install
npm start
```

### Tech Stack

-   React.js using its [create-react-app starter kit](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app)
-   Javascript, HTML, JSX
-   SASS styling
-   ESlint

### Planning

After some diagramming I outlined my plan;

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14803518/41667528-1c8e1a6e-74a5-11e8-9f60-4dbf0a03998d.jpg">
</p>

1.  Environment setup - Setting up react using [create-react-app ](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app), setting up SASS, git, and ESlint.

2.  Start by making the parent component, the page which would hold all the child components.

3.  Create the form for the user to input the data in. Data will be sent to the parent to update the state, and then render it to the page.

4.  Create the single webpage choices component. This will contain the functionality of being able to delete and edit itself.

5.  Link up all components to the parent component and make sure all the functionality is working. Add styling.

6.  Make the data persist.

7.  Upload to Heroku.

### Challenges

As I am more used to using Vue.js, I found some aspects of creating this app in React.js challenging.

The JSX syntax is quite confusing to get used to, mixing HTML and Javascript seems to create a lot of syntax errors involving brackets, curly brackets and tag brackets!

I found the setup with ESlint rather tough, it seemed that after some research I was unable to find a way to have it output its errors to the page, without Ejecting the webpack template.

Most of the blockers I had encountered were to do with deprecated code. It can be frustrating to google answers, find a solution, apply it and have it working, only to find out later that it is deprecated and not good practice to use that method anymore.

This also makes it difficult to know what is good practice and syntactically correct, as some of the resources online are outdated.

I plan to complete this tech test as it is great practice for learning React, and I will do so on [another repo](https://github.com/puyanwei/react-bookmark-manager). Feel free to check on it if you want. Thanks!

Commit message:

App is deployed in Heroku. Updated readme

README.md, after:

# Bookmark Manager

This web app imitates a bookmark manager.

-   Users can add a bookmark to the list.
-   Bookmarks output as clickable hyperlinks.
-   Users can delete an existing bookmark to the list.
-   There is validation in the form to only allow website urls as valid entries, or an error will be thrown.
-   Users can edit their existing bookmarks.
-   Users list will be stored in localStorage so data is immutable

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14803518/41667475-feb1afd8-74a4-11e8-9953-071c73c35fbd.png">
</p>

### Installation

_Update!_ - App is deployed at https://react-bookmark-manager.herokuapp.com/

```
git clone git@github.com:puyanwei/bookmark-manager-react.git
cd bookmark-manager-react
npm install
npm start
```

### Tech Stack

-   React.js using its [create-react-app starter kit](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app)
-   Javascript, HTML, JSX
-   SASS styling
-   ESlint

### Planning

After some diagramming I outlined my plan;

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14803518/41667528-1c8e1a6e-74a5-11e8-9f60-4dbf0a03998d.jpg">
</p>

1.  Environment setup - Setting up react using [create-react-app ](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app), setting up SASS, git, and ESlint.

2.  Start by making the parent component, the page which would hold all the child components.

3.  Create the form for the user to input the data in. Data will be sent to the parent to update the state, and then render it to the page.

4.  Create the single webpage choices component. This will contain the functionality of being able to delete and edit itself.

5.  Link up all components to the parent component and make sure all the functionality is working. Add styling.

6.  Make the data persist.

7.  Upload to Heroku.

### Challenges

As I am more used to using Vue.js, I found some aspects of creating this app in React.js challenging.

The JSX syntax is quite confusing to get used to, mixing HTML and Javascript seems to create a lot of syntax errors involving brackets, curly brackets and tag brackets!

I found the setup with ESlint rather tough, it seemed that after some research I was unable to find a way to have it output its errors to the page, without Ejecting the webpack template.

Most of the blockers I had encountered were to do with deprecated code. It can be frustrating to google answers, find a solution, apply it and have it working, only to find out later that it is deprecated and not good practice to use that method anymore.

This also makes it difficult to know what is good practice and syntactically correct, as some of the resources online are outdated.
